---
layout: post
title: GS1-128 Resources
---

GS1-128 barcodes are standard across the North American food processing industry. Major retail and food service customers require these barcodes as a way of more easily creating traceability between customers and suppliers.

Typically in the food industry a GS1-128 barcode label is used on the cases of fixed and catch weight cases of food products. These barcodes contain the SCC code, production date, product weight and lot number of the case.

When your customer receives a case of product with a GS1-128 barcode label on it, they can scan the case and easily load that information into their system. This is the major advantage such a barcode offers. 

It can be a challenge to find a solution that properly creates and tracks products using GS1-128 barcode labels. Catchmate handles weighing and labelling but you will need something else to manage your inventory.

We wanted to share some good resources on GS1-128 barcodes for those who want to learn more about how they relate to your food business and what to do if one of your customers asks you to make one.

- Here is the official specification for the [GS1-128 barcode symbology](http://www.gs1.org/barcodes-epcrfid-id-keys/gs1-general-specifications). It is pretty dry reading but helps you understand what can be contained in the barcode.
- Here is a simple explaination of [how to decode GS1-128 barcodes](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=J5PdaeJ66Zg) that can help you confirm if your suppliers are sending you GS1-128 barcodes and what to do about them.

If you need to create GS1-128 barcodes, Catchmate can help with that. If you just need to understand them, the resources above are a good way to see if you are meeting customer requirements or your suppliers are using GS1-128 barcodes.

In future blog posts, we will go into further detail about how GS1-128 and other barcode formats can be used internally in your business to help you manage inventory and production information more easily.

